The addition of the `Stream` API was one of the major features added to Java 8. A `Stream` in Java can be defined as a sequence of elements from a source that supports aggregate operations on them. The source here refers to collections or arrays that provide data to a stream.

1. A stream is not a data structure itself. It is a bunch of operations applied to a source. The source can be collections, arrays or I/O channels.
2. Streams don’t change the original data structure.
3. There can be zero or more intermediate operations that transform a stream into another stream.
4. Each intermediate operation is lazily executed (This will be discussed later).
5. Terminal operations produce the result of the stream.

## Stream creation
Streams can be created from different element sources, e.g., a collection or an array with the help of `stream()` and `of()` methods. Below are the different ways to create a stream.

1. Stream.of(v1, v2, v3….)
2. List.stream()

## The Stream interfaces
- The Stream API defines a few interfaces such as `Stream`, `IntStream`, `LongStream`, etc.
- The `Stream<T>` interface is for object elements. For primitives, it defines `IntStream`, `LongStream` and `DoubleStream` interfaces.
- It is a good practice to use primitive streams if you are dealing with primitives because wrapping primitives to objects and auto-boxing is a costly process.

### Intermediate operations
These methods do not produce any results. They usually accept functional interfaces as parameters and always return a new stream. Some examples of intermediate operations are filter(), map(), etc.

### Terminal operations
- These methods produce some results, e.g., `count()`, `toArray(..)`, and `collect(..)`.
- The streams operations can be further classified as:
	1. filtering
	2. slicing
	3. mapping
	4. matching and finding
	5. reduction
	6. collect