- Mapping operations are those operations that transform the elements of a stream and return a new stream with transformed elements.
- We can use a variety of methods to transform a stream into another stream object. The two most common methods used are `map()` and `flatMap()`.

## Understanding map()
- The `map()` method takes a lambda expression as its only argument and uses it to change every individual element in the stream. Its return value is a new stream object containing the changed elements.
```java
<R> Stream<R> map(Function<? super T, ? extends R> mapper)
```

**Input Parameter** -> A function to apply to each element.
**Return Type ->** Returns a stream consisting of the results of applying the given function to the elements of the stream.

```java
list.stream()
	.map(name -> name.toUpperCase()) //map() takes an input of Function<T, R> type.
    .forEach(System.out::println);   // forEach() takes an input of Consumer type.
```


## Understanding mapToInt()

*Problem: Given a list of words, we need to print the length of each word.*

To solve this problem, we can use a `map()`, which takes **s -> s.length()** lambda expression as input. However, have you noticed anything here?
The input is a string and output is an integer. If we use **map(s -> s.length())** , then it will return a stream of integers.
However, in the first lesson, we discussed that if we are dealing with primitives then we should use primitive flavors of stream.

The `mapToInt()` method comes into the picture here. If we use the `mapToInt()` method instead of `map()`, it will return `IntStream` instead of `Stream`.

So, if we are sure that our function is going to return a primitive, instead of using `map()` use `mapToInt()`, `mapToLong()` or `mapToDouble()`.

```java
list.stream()
	.mapToInt(name -> name.length())
	.forEach(System.out::println);
```


## Understanding flatMap()
- Stream `flatMap()` method is used to flatten a stream of collections to a stream of elements combined from all collections.
- Basically, `flatMap()` is used to do following operation:
	- `Stream<String[]> -> flatMap -> Stream<String>`
	- `Stream<Set<String>> -> flatMap -> Stream<String>`
	- `Stream<List<String>> -> flatMap -> Stream<String>`

- *Now, the question is why do we need to flatten our stream?* 
The reason is that intermediate methods such as `filter()` and `distinct()` do not work on streams of `Collections`.
These methods only work on streams of primitives or objects. So, we need to flatten our stream before using these intermediate functions.

``` java
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.Arrays;
import java.util.List;
import java.util.stream.Stream;

public class StreamDemo {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        List<List<String>> list = new ArrayList<>();
        list.add(Arrays.asList("a","b","c"));
        list.add(Arrays.asList("d","e","f"));
        list.add(Arrays.asList("g","h","i"));
        list.add(Arrays.asList("j","k","l"));
        //Created a stream from the list.
        Stream<List<String>> stream1 = list.stream();
        // Flattened the stream.
        Stream<String> stream2 = stream1.flatMap(s -> s.stream());
        //Applied filter on flattened stream.
        Stream<String> stream3 = stream2.filter(x -> "a".equals(x));
        
        stream3.forEach(System.out::println);
    }
}
```






